\."############################################################################
\."  $Id: genders_errors.3,v 1.7 2003-12-30 21:47:13 achu Exp $
\."############################################################################
\."  Copyright (C) 2001-2003 The Regents of the University of California.
\."  Produced at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (cf, DISCLAIMER).
\."  Written by Jim Garlick <garlick@llnl.gov> and Albert Chu <chu11@llnl.gov>.
\."  UCRL-CODE-2003-004.
\."  
\."  This file is part of Genders, a cluster configuration database.
\."  For details, see <http://www.llnl.gov/linux/genders/>.
\."  
\."  Genders is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
\."  the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
\."  Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
\."  any later version.
\."  
\."  Genders is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
\."  WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
\."  FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
\."  details.
\."  
\."  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
\."  with Genders; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
\."  59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA.
\."############################################################################
.TH GENDERS_ERRNUM 3 "August 2003" "LLNL" "LIBGENDERS"
.SH NAME
genders_errnum, genders_strerror, genders_errormsg, genders_perror \-
get information about recent genders errors
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <genders.h>
.sp
.BI "int genders_errnum(genders_t handle);"
.sp
.BI "char *genders_strerror(int errnum);"
.sp
.BI "char *genders_errormsg(genders_t handle);"
.sp
.BI "void genders_perror(genders_t handle, const char *msg);"
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBgenders_errnum()\fR returns the error code stored in \fIhandle\fR.

\fBgenders_strerror()\fR returns a string describing the error code
\fIerrnum\fR.

\fBgenders_errormsg()\fR returns a string describing the error code
stored in \fIhandle\fR.  It equivalent to:

char *genders_strerror(genders_errnum(genders_t handle));

\fBgenders_perror()\fR is similar to 
.BR perror (3).
It produces a message on standard error output, describing the error
stored in \fIhandle\fR.  If \fImsg\fR is not NULL, the string pointed
to by \fImsg\fR, a colon, and a blank are printed before the error
message.

In general, \fBgenders_errnum()\fR, \fBgenders_strerror()\fR,
\fBgenders_errormsg()\fR, and \fBgenders_perror()\fR should be used
immediately after a genders C API function returns an error.  Thus,
these functions can return information about the most recent error
that has occurred.
.br
.SH RETURN VALUES
\fBgenders_errnum()\fR returns the error code stored in \fIhandle\fR.

\fBgenders_strerror()\fR and \fBgenders_errormsg()\fR, return a
pointer to a string describing the error code stored in \fIhandle\fR.
.br
.SH FILES
/usr/include/genders.h
.SH SEE ALSO
libgenders(3)
