\."############################################################################
\."  $Id: genders_query.3,v 1.1 2004-06-09 21:53:00 achu Exp $
\."############################################################################
\."  Copyright (C) 2001-2003 The Regents of the University of California.
\."  Produced at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (cf, DISCLAIMER).
\."  Written by Jim Garlick <garlick@llnl.gov> and Albert Chu <chu11@llnl.gov>.
\."  UCRL-CODE-2003-004.
\."  
\."  This file is part of Genders, a cluster configuration database.
\."  For details, see <http://www.llnl.gov/linux/genders/>.
\."  
\."  Genders is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
\."  the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
\."  Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
\."  any later version.
\."  
\."  Genders is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
\."  WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
\."  FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
\."  details.
\."  
\."  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
\."  with Genders; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
\."  59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA.
\."############################################################################
.TH GENDERS_QUERY 3 "June 2004" "LLNL" "LIBGENDERS"
.SH NAME
genders_query \- query genders database for a set of nodes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <genders.h>
.sp
.BI "int genders_query(genders_t handle, char *query, char *nodes[], int len););"
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBgenders_query()\fR queries the genders database for a set of nodes
based on the union, intersection, or set difference between genders
attributes and values.  The query for a set of nodes is passed as a
string through the \fIquery\fR parameter.  The query is made up of
attributes of attribute=value pairs and set operations between them.
The set operation union is represented by a plus ('+'), intersection
by a comma (','), and set difference by a minus ('-').  Set operations
are performed left to right.  Parentheses may be used to change the
order of operations.  A list of query examples are listed below.

The nodes from the query are stored in the list pointed to
by \fInodes\fR.  \fIlen\fR indicates the number of nodes that can be
stored in the list.

To avoid passing in a list that is not large enough to store all the
nodes,
.BR genders_getnumnodes (3)
should be used to determine the minimum number of elements \fInodes\fR
should be able to store.
.BR genders_nodelist_create (3)
could be used to create a list that is guaranteed to be large enough
to store all of the nodes.
.br
.SH EXAMPLES
The following are examples of syntax correct queries that can be
passed to \fBgenders_query()\fR.
.LP
Determine the set of nodes with the mgmt and login attributes:
        "mgmt+login"
.LP
Determine the set of nodes that are not login nodes:
        "all-login"
.LP
Determine the set of nodes that both login nodes and ntp servers:
        "login,ntpserv"
.LP
Determine the set of nodes that are not mgmt or login nodes:
        "all-(mgmt+login)"
.SH RETURN VALUES
On success, the number of nodes stored in \fInodes\fR is returned.  On
error, -1 is returned, and an error code is returned in \fIhandle\fR.
The error code can be retrieved via
.BR genders_errnum (3)
, and a description of the error code can be retrieved via
.BR genders_strerror (3).
Error codes are defined in genders.h.
.br
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_NULLHANDLE
The \fIhandle\fR parameter is NULL.  The genders handle must be
created with
.BR genders_handle_create (3).
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_NOTLOADED
.BR genders_load_data (3)
has not been called to load genders data.
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_OVERFLOW
The list pointed to by \fInodes\fR is not large enough to store all
the nodes.
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_PARAMETERS
An incorrect parameter has been passed in.  
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_SYNTAX
There is a syntax error in the query.
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_QUERY_INPUT
In invalid genders attribute or attribute=value pair was listed in the
query.
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_OUTMEM
.BR malloc (3)
has failed internally, system is out of memory.
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_NULLPTR
A null pointer has been found in the list passed in.
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_MAGIC 
\fIhandle\fR has an incorrect magic number.  \fIhandle\fR does not
point to a genders handle or \fIhandle\fR has been destroyed by
.BR genders_handle_destroy (3).
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_INTERNAL
An internal system error has occurred.  
.br
.SH FILES
/usr/include/genders.h
.SH SEE ALSO
libgenders(3), genders_handle_create(3), genders_load_data(3),
genders_getnumnodes(3), genders_nodelist_create(3), genders_errnum(3),
genders_strerror(3)
