.\"############################################################################
.\"  $Id: genders_load_data.3,v 1.14 2010-02-02 00:04:34 chu11 Exp $
.\"############################################################################
.\"  Copyright (C) 2007-2019 Lawrence Livermore National Security, LLC.
.\"  Copyright (C) 2001-2007 The Regents of the University of California.
.\"  Produced at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (cf, DISCLAIMER).
.\"  Written by Jim Garlick <garlick@llnl.gov> and Albert Chu <chu11@llnl.gov>.
.\"  UCRL-CODE-2003-004.
.\"  
.\"  This file is part of Genders, a cluster configuration database.
.\"  For details, see <http://www.llnl.gov/linux/genders/>.
.\"  
.\"  Genders is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
.\"  the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
.\"  Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
.\"  any later version.
.\"  
.\"  Genders is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
.\"  WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
.\"  FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
.\"  details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
.\"  with Genders.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"############################################################################
.TH GENDERS_LOAD_DATA 3 "August 2003" "LLNL" "LIBGENDERS"
.SH NAME
genders_load_data \-  read and parse a genders file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <genders.h>
.sp
.BI "int genders_load_data(genders_t handle, const char *filename);"
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBgenders_load_data()\fR read and parses the genders file indicated
by \fIfilename\fR.  If \fIfilename\fR is NULL,
\fBgenders_load_data()\fR will attempt to read and parse the default
genders file defined by \fBGENDERS_DEFAULT_FILE\fR. \fIhandle\fR is a
genders handle created by
.BR genders_handle_create (3).  

After \fBgenders_load_data()\fR is called, information about the
genders file is stored in the genders handle passed in.  This
information is used by other genders C API functions.  All future use
of \fIhandle\fR with other genders C API functions will be directly
associated with the genders file indicated by \fIfilename\fR (or the
default genders file if \fIfilename\fR is NULL).
.br
.SH RETURN VALUES
On success, 0 is returned.  On error, -1 is returned, and an error
code is returned in \fIhandle\fR.  The error code can be retrieved via
.BR genders_errnum (3)
, and a description of the error code can be retrieved via 
.BR genders_strerror (3).  
Error codes are defined in genders.h.
.br
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_NULLHANDLE
The \fIhandle\fR parameter is NULL.  The genders handle must be created
with
.BR genders_handle_create (3).
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_OPEN
The genders file indicated by \fIfilename\fR cannot be opened for reading.
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_READ
Error reading the genders file indicated by \fIfilename\fR.
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_PARSE
The genders file indicated by \fIfilename\fR is incorrectly formatted.
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_ISLOADED
.BR genders_load_data (3) 
has already been called with \fIhandle\fR.  
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_OVERFLOW
A line in the genders database exceeds the maximum allowed length.
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_OUTMEM
.BR malloc (3)
has failed internally, system is out of memory.
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_MAGIC 
\fIhandle\fR has an incorrect magic number.  \fIhandle\fR does not
point to a genders handle or \fIhandle\fR has been destroyed by
.BR genders_handle_destroy (3).
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_INTERNAL
An internal system error has occurred.  
.br
.SH FILES
/usr/include/genders.h
.SH SEE ALSO
libgenders(3), genders_handle_create(3), genders_handle_destroy(3),
genders_errnum(3), genders_strerror(3)
