.\"############################################################################
.\"  $Id: genders_parse.3,v 1.13 2010-02-02 00:04:34 chu11 Exp $
.\"############################################################################
.\"  Copyright (C) 2007-2019 Lawrence Livermore National Security, LLC.
.\"  Copyright (C) 2001-2007 The Regents of the University of California.
.\"  Produced at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (cf, DISCLAIMER).
.\"  Written by Jim Garlick <garlick@llnl.gov> and Albert Chu <chu11@llnl.gov>.
.\"  UCRL-CODE-2003-004.
.\"  
.\"  This file is part of Genders, a cluster configuration database.
.\"  For details, see <http://www.llnl.gov/linux/genders/>.
.\"  
.\"  Genders is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
.\"  the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
.\"  Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
.\"  any later version.
.\"  
.\"  Genders is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
.\"  WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
.\"  FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
.\"  details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
.\"  with Genders.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"############################################################################
.TH GENDERS_PARSE 3 "August 2003" "LLNL" "LIBGENDERS"
.SH NAME
genders_parse \- determine errors with a genders file
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.B #include <genders.h>
.sp
.BI "int genders_parse(genders_t handle, const char *filename, FILE *stream);"
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBgenders_parse()\fR parses the genders file indicated by
\fIfilename\fR and outputs information to \fIstream\fR about parse
errors in the genders file.  If \fIfilename\fR is NULL, the default
genders file will be checked.  If \fIstream\fR is NULL, information
will be output to standard error.
.br
.SH RETURN VALUES
On success, the number of parse errors discovered is returned.  If
there are no errors, 0 is returned.  On error, -1 is returned, and an
error code is returned in \fIhandle\fR.  The error code can be
retrieved via
.BR genders_errnum (3)
, and a description of the error code can be retrieved via 
.BR genders_strerror (3).  
Error codes are defined in genders.h.
.br
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_NULLHANDLE
The \fIhandle\fR parameter is NULL.  The genders handle must be created
with
.BR genders_handle_create (3).
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_OPEN
The genders file indicated by \fIfilename\fR cannot be opened for reading.
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_OVERFLOW
A line in the genders database exceeds the maximum allowed length.
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_MAGIC 
\fIhandle\fR has an incorrect magic number.  \fIhandle\fR does not
point to a genders handle or \fIhandle\fR has been destroyed by
.BR genders_handle_destroy (3).
.br
.SH FILES
/usr/include/genders.h
.SH SEE ALSO
libgenders(3), genders_handle_create(3), genders_errnum(3),
genders_strerror(3)
