.\"############################################################################
.\"  $Id: genders_testquery.3,v 1.2 2010-02-02 00:04:34 chu11 Exp $
.\"############################################################################
.\"  Copyright (C) 2007-2019 Lawrence Livermore National Security, LLC.
.\"  Copyright (C) 2001-2007 The Regents of the University of California.
.\"  Produced at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (cf, DISCLAIMER).
.\"  Written by Jim Garlick <garlick@llnl.gov> and Albert Chu <chu11@llnl.gov>.
.\"  UCRL-CODE-2003-004.
.\"  
.\"  This file is part of Genders, a cluster configuration database.
.\"  For details, see <http://www.llnl.gov/linux/genders/>.
.\"  
.\"  Genders is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
.\"  the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
.\"  Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
.\"  any later version.
.\"  
.\"  Genders is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
.\"  WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
.\"  FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
.\"  details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
.\"  with Genders.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"############################################################################
.TH GENDERS_TESTQUERY 3 "June 2004" "LLNL" "LIBGENDERS"
.SH NAME
genders_testquery \- query genders database for a set of nodes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <genders.h>
.sp
.BI "int genders_testquery(genders_t handle, const char *node, const char *query);"
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBgenders_testquery()\fR tests if the node pointed to by \fInode\fR
meets the conditions specified in the query.  If \fInode\fR is NULL,
the current node is tested.  Queries are based on the union,
intersection, difference, or complement of genders attributes and
values.  The query is passed as a string through the \fIquery\fR
parameter.  The set operation union is represented by two pipe symbols
('||'), intersection by two ampersand symbols ('&&'), difference by
two minus symbols ('--'), and complement by a tilde ('~').  Set
operations are performed left to right.  Parentheses may be used to
change the order of operations.  A list of query examples are listed
below.  A NULL query retrieves all nodes from the genders database.
.br
.SH EXAMPLES
The following are example queries that can be
passed to \fBgenders_testquery()\fR.
.LP
Test if a node contains the mgmt or login attribute:
        "mgmt||login"
.LP
Test if a node is not a login node:
        "all--login"
.LP
Test if a node is both a login node and ntp server:
        "login&&ntpserv"
.LP
Test if a node is not a mgmt or login node:
        "~(mgmt||login)"
.SH RETURN VALUES
If the node as met the conditions of the query, 1 is returned.  0 is
returned if the node does not meet the conditions of the query.  On
error, -1 is returned, and an error code is returned in \fIhandle\fR.
The error code can be retrieved via
.BR genders_errnum (3)
, and a description of the error code can be retrieved via
.BR genders_strerror (3).
Error codes are defined in genders.h.
.br
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_NULLHANDLE
The \fIhandle\fR parameter is NULL.  The genders handle must be
created with
.BR genders_handle_create (3).
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_NOTLOADED
.BR genders_load_data (3)
has not been called to load genders data.
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_PARAMETERS
An incorrect parameter has been passed in.  
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_SYNTAX
There is a syntax error in the query.
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_OUTMEM
.BR malloc (3)
has failed internally, system is out of memory.
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_MAGIC 
\fIhandle\fR has an incorrect magic number.  \fIhandle\fR does not
point to a genders handle or \fIhandle\fR has been destroyed by
.BR genders_handle_destroy (3).
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_INTERNAL
An internal system error has occurred.  
.br
.SH FILES
/usr/include/genders.h
.SH SEE ALSO
libgenders(3), genders_handle_create(3), genders_load_data(3),
genders_errnum(3), genders_strerror(3)
