.\"############################################################################
.\"  $Id: genders_handle_create.3,v 1.11 2010-02-02 00:04:34 chu11 Exp $
.\"############################################################################
.\"  Copyright (C) 2007-2019 Lawrence Livermore National Security, LLC.
.\"  Copyright (C) 2001-2007 The Regents of the University of California.
.\"  Produced at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (cf, DISCLAIMER).
.\"  Written by Jim Garlick <garlick@llnl.gov> and Albert Chu <chu11@llnl.gov>.
.\"  UCRL-CODE-2003-004.
.\"  
.\"  This file is part of Genders, a cluster configuration database.
.\"  For details, see <http://www.llnl.gov/linux/genders/>.
.\"  
.\"  Genders is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
.\"  the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
.\"  Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
.\"  any later version.
.\"  
.\"  Genders is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
.\"  WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
.\"  FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
.\"  details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
.\"  with Genders.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"############################################################################
.TH GENDERS_HANDLE_CREATE 3 "August 2003" "LLNL" "LIBGENDERS"
.SH NAME
genders_handle_create \- create a genders handle 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <genders.h>
.sp
.BI "genders_t genders_handle_create(void);"
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.br
\fBgenders_handle_create()\fR creates a genders handle for use with
the genders C API.  A genders handle is of type genders_t, which is
defined in genders.h.  The genders handle must be passed to most of
the genders C API functions.
.br
.SH RETURN VALUES
On success, a genders handle (datatype genders_t) will be returned. On
error, NULL is returned.
.br
.SH FILES
/usr/include/genders.h
.SH SEE ALSO
genders_handle_destroy(3), genders_load_data(3)
