\."#################################################################
\."$Id: genders_getattr.3,v 1.7 2003-07-15 22:18:06 achu Exp $
\."by Albert Chu <chu11@llnl.gov>
\."#################################################################
.\"
.TH GENDERS_GETATTR 3 "Release 1.2" "LLNL" "LIBGENDERS"
.SH NAME
genders_getattr \- get attributes from a genders file 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <genders.h>
.sp
.BI "int genders_getattr(genders_t handle, char *attrs[], char *vals[], int len, const char *node);"
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBgenders_getattr()\fR gets the attributes and values for the node
pointed to by \fInode\fR.  If \fInode\fR is NULL, attributes and
values are retrieved for the current node.  The attributes are stored
in the attribute list pointed to by \fIattrs\fR and the attribute
values are stored in \fIvals\fR.  If attribute values are not desired,
\fIvals\fR can be set to NULL.  \fIlen\fR should indicate the number
of elements that can be stored in both the attribute list and
attribute values list.

To avoid passing in a list that is not large enough to store all the
attributes and attribute values,
.BR genders_getmaxattrs (3)
should be used to determine the minimum number of elements \fIattrs\fR
and \fIvals\fR should be able to store.
.BR genders_attrlist_create (3) 
and
.BR genders_vallist_create (3)
could be used to create lists that are guaranteed to be large enough
to store all attributes and attribute values.
.br
.SH RETURN VALUES
On success, the number of attributes stored in \fIattrs\fR is
returned.  On error, -1 is returned, and an error code is returned in
\fIhandle\fR.  The error code can be retrieved via
.BR genders_errnum (3)
, and a description of the error code can be retrieved via 
.BR genders_strerror (3).  
Error codes are defined in genders.h.
.br
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_NULLHANDLE
The \fIhandle\fR parameter is NULL.  The genders handle must be
created with
.BR genders_handle_create (3).
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_NOTLOADED
.BR genders_load_data (3)
has not been called to load genders data.
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_OVERFLOW
The list pointed to by \fIattrs\fR or \fIvals\fR is not large enough
to store all the attributes or attribute values.
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_PARAMETERS
An incorrect parameter has been passed in.  
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_NULLPTR
A null pointer has been found in the list passed in.
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_NOTFOUND
The node pointed to by \fInode\fR cannot be found in the genders file.  
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_MAGIC 
\fIhandle\fR has an incorrect magic number.  \fIhandle\fR does not
point to a genders handle or \fIhandle\fR has been destroyed by
.BR genders_handle_destroy (3).
.br
.SH FILES
/usr/include/genders.h
.SH SEE ALSO
libgenders(3), genders_handle_create(3), genders_load_data(3),
genders_getmaxattrs(3), genders_attrlist_create(3),
genders_vallist_create(3), genders_errnum(3), genders_strerror(3)
