\."#################################################################
\."$Id: genders_handle_dump.3,v 1.3 2003-05-09 17:32:51 achu Exp $
\."by Albert Chu <chu11@llnl.gov>
\."#################################################################
.\"
.TH GENDERS_HANDLE_DUMP 3 "Release 1.1" "LLNL" "LIBGENDERS"
.SH NAME
genders_handle_dump \- dump the contents of a genders handle
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <genders.h>
.sp
.BI "int genders_handle_dump(genders_t handle, FILE *stream);"
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBgenders_handle_dump()\fR dumps the contents stored in \fIhandle\fR
to the stream pointed to by \fIstream\fR.  If \fIstream\fR is NULL,
the contents are dumped to standard output.  This function is used
almost exclusively for debugging purposes.
.br
.SH RETURN VALUES
On success, 0 is returned.  On error, -1 is returned, and an error
code is returned in \fIhandle\fR.  The error code can be retrieved via
.BR genders_errnum (3)
, and a description of the error code can be retrieved via 
.BR genders_strerror (3).  
Error codes are defined in genders.h.
.br
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_NULLHANDLE
The \fIhandle\fR parameter is NULL.  The genders handle must be
created with
.BR genders_handle_create (3).
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_NOTLOADED
.BR genders_load_data (3)
has not been called to load genders data.
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_MAGIC 
\fIhandle\fR has an incorrect magic number.  \fIhandle\fR does not
point to a genders handle or \fIhandle\fR has been destroyed by
.BR genders_handle_destroy (3).
.br
.SH FILES
/usr/include/genders.h
.SH SEE ALSO
libgenders(3), genders_handle_create(3), genders_load_data(3),
genders_errnum(3), genders_strerror(3)
