\."#################################################################
\."$Id: genders_testnode.3,v 1.2 2003-04-23 20:04:16 achu Exp $
\."by Albert Chu <chu11@llnl.gov>
\."#################################################################
.\"
.TH GENDERS_TESTNODE 3 "Release 1.1" "LLNL" "LIBGENDERS"
.SH NAME
genders_testnode \- test if a node is in the genders file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <genders.h>
.sp
.BI "int genders_testnode(genders_t handle, char *node);"
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBgenders_testnode()\fR tests if the node pointed to by \fInode\fR
is listed in the genders file associated with \fIhandle\fR.
If \fInode\fR is NULL, the current node is tested.  
.br
.SH RETURN VALUES
If \fInode\fR is listed in the genders file, 1 is returned.  If it is not
listed, 0 is returned. On error, -1 is returned, and an error code
is returned in \fIhandle\fR.  The error code can be retrieved
via
.BR genders_errnum (3)
, and a description of the error code can be retrieved via 
.BR genders_strerror (3).  
Error codes are defined in genders.h.
.br
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_NULLHANDLE
The \fIhandle\fR parameter is NULL.  The genders handle must be created
with
.BR genders_handle_create (3).
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_NOTLOADED
.BR genders_load_data (3)
has not been called to load genders data.
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_MAGIC 
\fIhandle\fR has an incorrect magic number.  \fIhandle\fR does not point to a genders
handle or \fIhandle\fR has been destroyed by 
.BR genders_handle_destroy (3).
.br
.SH FILES
/usr/include/genders.h
.SH SEE ALSO
libgenders(3), genders_handle_create(3), genders_load_data(3), genders_errnum(3), genders_strerror(3)
