\."############################################################################
\."  $Id: genders_index.3,v 1.1 2004-05-04 01:35:48 achu Exp $
\."############################################################################
\."  Copyright (C) 2001-2003 The Regents of the University of California.
\."  Produced at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (cf, DISCLAIMER).
\."  Written by Jim Garlick <garlick@llnl.gov> and Albert Chu <chu11@llnl.gov>.
\."  UCRL-CODE-2003-004.
\."  
\."  This file is part of Genders, a cluster configuration database.
\."  For details, see <http://www.llnl.gov/linux/genders/>.
\."  
\."  Genders is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
\."  the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
\."  Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
\."  any later version.
\."  
\."  Genders is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
\."  WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
\."  FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
\."  details.
\."  
\."  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
\."  with Genders; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
\."  59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA.
\."############################################################################
.TH GENDERS_INDEX_NODES 3 "August 2003" "LLNL" "LIBGENDERS"
.SH NAME
genders_index_nodes, genders_index_attrs, genders_index_attrvals \-
internally index nodes, attributes, or attribute values in genders
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <genders.h>
.sp
.BI "int genders_index_nodes(genders_t handle);"
.sp
.BI "int genders_index_attrs(genders_t handle);"
.sp
.BI "int genders_index_attrvals(genders_t handle, const char *attr);"
.sp
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBgenders_index_nodes()\fR, \fBgenders_index_attrs()\fR, and
\fBgenders_index_attrvals()\fR internally add indexing to a particular
genders handle so that genders searches can be done more quickly.  For
those familiar with SQL, these functions are similar to creating
database indexes.

\fBgenders_index_nodes()\fR internally adds indexing for genders node
searches.  This function can help decrease search times in the
.BR genders_getattr (3),
.BR genders_testattr (3),
.BR genders_testattrval (3),
and 
.BR genders_isnode (3)
functions.

\fBgenders_index_attrs()\fR internally adds indexing for genders
attribute searches.  This function can help decrease search times
in the
.BR genders_getnodes (3)
and
.BR genders_isattr (3)
functions.

\fBgenders_index_attrvals()\fR internally adds indexing for
the value for a specific genders attribute.  This function can
help decrease search times in the
.BR genders_getnodes (3)
and
.BR genders_isattrval (3)
functions.  Only one attribute can be indexed at a time through
this function.  Subsequent calls to this function with a different
attribute will overwrite earlier indexes.  
.br
.SH RETURN VALUES
On success, 0 is returned.  On error, -1 is returned, and an error
code is returned in \fIhandle\fR.  The error code can be retrieved via
.BR genders_errnum (3)
, and a description of the error code can be retrieved via 
.BR genders_strerror (3).  
Error codes are defined in genders.h.
.br
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_NULLHANDLE
The \fIhandle\fR parameter is NULL.  The genders handle must be
created with
.BR genders_handle_create (3).
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_NOTLOADED
.BR genders_load_data (3)
has not been called to load genders data.
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_PARAMETERS
An incorrect parameter has been passed in.  
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_OUTMEM
.BR malloc (3)
has failed internally, system is out of memory.
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_MAGIC 
\fIhandle\fR has an incorrect magic number.  \fIhandle\fR does not
point to a genders handle or \fIhandle\fR has been destroyed by
.BR genders_handle_destroy (3).
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_INTERNAL
An internal system error has occurred.  
.br
.SH FILES
/usr/include/genders.h
.SH SEE ALSO
libgenders(3), genders_handle_create(3), genders_load_data(3),
genders_getnodes(3), genders_getattr(3), genders_testattr(3),
genders_testattrval(3), genders_isnode(3), genders_isattr(3),
genders_isattrval(3), genders_errnum(3), genders_strerror(3)
