.\"############################################################################
.\"  $Id: genders_errnum.3,v 1.8 2010-02-02 00:04:34 chu11 Exp $
.\"############################################################################
.\"  Copyright (C) 2007-2019 Lawrence Livermore National Security, LLC.
.\"  Copyright (C) 2001-2007 The Regents of the University of California.
.\"  Produced at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (cf, DISCLAIMER).
.\"  Written by Jim Garlick <garlick@llnl.gov> and Albert Chu <chu11@llnl.gov>.
.\"  UCRL-CODE-2003-004.
.\"  
.\"  This file is part of Genders, a cluster configuration database.
.\"  For details, see <http://www.llnl.gov/linux/genders/>.
.\"  
.\"  Genders is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
.\"  the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
.\"  Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
.\"  any later version.
.\"  
.\"  Genders is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
.\"  WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
.\"  FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
.\"  details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
.\"  with Genders.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"############################################################################
.TH GENDERS_ERRNUM 3 "August 2003" "LLNL" "LIBGENDERS"
.SH NAME
genders_errnum, genders_strerror, genders_errormsg, genders_perror \-
genders error routines
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <genders.h>
.sp
.BI "int genders_errnum(genders_t handle);"
.sp
.BI "char *genders_strerror(int errnum);"
.sp
.BI "char *genders_errormsg(genders_t handle);"
.sp
.BI "void genders_perror(genders_t handle, const char *msg);"
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBgenders_errnum()\fR returns the error code stored in
\fIhandle\fR.

\fBgenders_strerror()\fR returns a pointer to a string describing the error code
\fIerrnum\fR.

Generally, an error code is retrieved by \fBgenders_errnum()\fR and
then passed to \fBgenders_strerror()\fR.

\fBgenders_errormsg()\fR returns a pointer to a string describing
the error stored in \fIhandle\fR.  It is logically equivalent to:

char *genders_strerror(genders_errnum(genders_t handle));

\fBgenders_perror()\fR is similar to
.BR perror (3).
It produces a message on standard error output, describing the error
stored in \fIhandle\fR.  If \fImsg\fR is not NULL, the string pointed
to by \fImsg\fR, a colon, and a blank are printed before the error
message.
.br
.SH FILES
/usr/include/genders.h
