\."#################################################################
\."$Id: genders_getnodename.3,v 1.3 2003-05-12 20:22:33 achu Exp $
\."by Albert Chu <chu11@llnl.gov>
\."#################################################################
.\"
.TH GENDERS_GETNODENAME 3 "Release 1.1" "LLNL" "LIBGENDERS"
.SH NAME
genders_getnodename \- get the current node name
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <genders.h>
.sp
.BI "int genders_getnodename(genders_t handle, char *node, int len);"
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBgenders_getnodename()\fR retrieves the name of the node that the
function is being called from.  The node name returned is the
shortened hostname of the node and is stored in the buffer pointed to
be \fInode\fR.  \fIlen\fR should indicate the length of the buffer.
The node returned by \fBgenders_getnodename()\fR is the shortened
hostname of the node.

To avoid passing in a buffer that is not large enough to store the
node name,
.BR genders_getmaxnodelen (3)
should be used to determine the minimum buffer size that should be used. 
.br
.SH RETURN VALUES
On success, 0 is returned.  On error, -1 is returned, and an error
code is returned in \fIhandle\fR.  The error code can be retrieved via
.BR genders_errnum (3)
, and a description of the error code can be retrieved via 
.BR genders_strerror (3).  
Error codes are defined in genders.h.
.br
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_NULLHANDLE
The \fIhandle\fR parameter is NULL.  The genders handle must be created
with
.BR genders_handle_create (3).
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_NOTLOADED
.BR genders_load_data (3)
has not been called to load genders data.
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_OVERFLOW
The buffer pointed to by \fInode\fR is not large enough to store the node name.
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_PARAMETERS
An incorrect parameter has been passed in.  
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_MAGIC 
\fIhandle\fR has an incorrect magic number.  \fIhandle\fR does not
point to a genders handle or \fIhandle\fR has been destroyed by
.BR genders_handle_destroy (3).
.br
.SH FILES
/usr/include/genders.h
.SH SEE ALSO
libgenders(3), genders_handle_create(3), genders_load_data(3),
genders_getmaxnodelen(3), genders_errnum(3), genders_strerror(3)
