\."#################################################################
\."$Id: genders_stats.3,v 1.3 2003-05-09 17:32:51 achu Exp $
\."by Albert Chu <chu11@llnl.gov>
\."#################################################################
.\"
.TH GENDERS_GETNUMNODES 3 "Release 1.1" "LLNL" "LIBGENDERS"
.SH NAME
genders_getnumnodes, genders_getnumattrs, genders_getmaxattrs,
genders_getmaxnodelen, genders_getmaxattrlen, genders_getmaxvallen \-
get information about a genders file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <genders.h>
.sp
.BI "int genders_getnumnodes(genders_t handle);"
.sp
.BI "int genders_getnumattrs(genders_t handle);"
.sp
.BI "int genders_getmaxattrs(genders_t handle);"
.sp
.BI "int genders_getmaxnodelen(genders_t handle);"
.sp
.BI "int genders_getmaxattrlen(genders_t handle);"
.sp
.BI "int genders_getmaxvallen(genders_t handle);"
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBgenders_getnumnodes()\fR, \fBgenders_getnumattrs()\fR,
\fBgenders_getmaxattrs()\fR, \fBgenders_getmaxnodelen()\fR,
\fBgenders_getmaxattrlen()\fR, and \fBgenders_getmaxvallen()\fR get
statistics about the genders file associated with \fIhandle\fR.

\fBgenders_getnumnodes()\fR returns the number of nodes stored in the
genders file.

\fBgenders_getnumattrs()\fR returns the number of attributes listed in
the genders file.

\fBgenders_getmaxattrs()\fR returns the maximum number of attributes
listed with a node in the genders file.

\fBgenders_getmaxnodelen()\fR returns the maximum length of any node
listed in the genders file.

\fBgenders_getmaxattrlen()\fR returns the maximum length of any
attribute listed in the genders file.

\fBgenders_getmaxvallen()\fR returns the maximum length of any
attribute value listed in the genders file.

In general, \fBgenders_getnumnodes()\fR, \fBgenders_getnumattrs()\fR,
\fBgenders_getmaxattrs()\fR, \fBgenders_getmaxnodelen()\fR,
\fBgenders_getmaxattrlen()\fR, and \fBgenders_getmaxvallen()\fR are
used so a programmer can dynamically allocate a proper amount of
memory to store genders file information in.
.br
.SH RETURN VALUES
On success, 0 is returned.  On error, -1 is returned, and an error
code is returned in \fIhandle\fR.  The error code can be retrieved via
.BR genders_errnum (3)
, and a description of the error code can be retrieved via 
.BR genders_strerror (3).  
Error codes are defined in genders.h.
.br
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_NULLHANDLE
The \fIhandle\fR parameter is NULL.  The genders handle must be
created with
.BR genders_handle_create (3).
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_NOTLOADED
.BR genders_load_data (3)
has not been called to load genders data.
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_MAGIC 
\fIhandle\fR has an incorrect magic number.  \fIhandle\fR does not
point to a genders handle or \fIhandle\fR has been destroyed by
.BR genders_handle_destroy (3).
.br
.SH FILES
/usr/include/genders.h
.SH SEE ALSO
libgenders(3), genders_handle_create(3), genders_load_data(3),
genders_errnum(3), genders_strerror(3)
