\."#################################################################
\."$Id: Libgenders.3,v 1.3 2003-04-23 23:21:11 achu Exp $
\."by Albert Chu <chu11@llnl.gov>
\."#################################################################
.\"
.TH LIBGENDERS 3 "Release 1.1" "LLNL" "LIBGENDERS"
.SH NAME
Libgenders \- a perl library that interfaces with the genders C API
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "use lib '/usr/lib/genders/';"
.br
.B "use Libgenders;"
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
This package provides a perl interface to the genders C API (see
.BR libgenders (3)).  
The perl interface is nearly identical to the genders C API, however
some changes were necessary due to the differences between C and perl.
Some of the functions from the C API cannot be accessed
via this perl interface, some new functions were created, the behavior
of some functions was modified, and the parameters passed into the
some functions was changed.

The reader is cautioned that a perl interface to C code may not behave
identically to perl code.  For example, the perl function call foo()
may behave identically to foo(undef) or foo("").  However, C code may
interpret the function arguments differently.  C code may interpret
the later two function calls as having passed in an empty string,
while foo() passed in a NULL pointer.
.LP
.B Initialization/Destruction
.LP
Libgenders::genders_handle_create()
.IP
Returns a genders handle to be used throughout the genders API.
Returns a genders handle on success, 0 on error.
.LP
Libgenders::genders_handle_destroy($handle)
.IP
Destroys a genders handle. Returns 0 on success, -1 on error.
.LP
Libgenders::genders_load_data($handle, [$filename])
.IP
Opens, reads, and parses the genders file specified by $filename.  If
$filename is not specified, the default genders file is parsed.
Returns 0 on success, -1 on error.
.LP 
Libgenders::genders_handle_close($handle)
.IP
Closes the file associated with the genders handle.  Once the
file is closed, the genders handle can be re-used to open a
different genders file.  Returns 0 on success, -1 on error.
.LP
.B Error Messages
.LP
Similarly to the C API, an error code is stored in the genders
handle after an error has occurred.  The following can be used 
to retrieve the error code and output information about the error.
See GENDERS ERRORS below for information on genders error codes.
.LP
Libgenders::genders_errnum($handle)
.IP
Returns the error code most recently set in the handle.  Returns -1 
on error.
.LP 
Libgenders::genders_strerror($errnum)
.IP
Returns a string describing the error code $errnum.  Returns the
empty string on error.
.LP 
Libgenders::genders_errormsg($handle)
.IP
Returns a string describing the most recent error set in the handle.
Returns the empty string on error.
.LP
Libgenders::genders_perror($handle, [$msg])
.IP
Outputs $msg and a string describing the most recent error to standard
error.  If $msg is not specified, only a description of the most
recent error will be output to standard error.
.LP  
.B Utility Functions
.LP
Libgenders::genders_handle_dump($handle)
.IP
Dump the contents stored in the genders handle.  This is used
primarily for debugging purposes.  Returns 0 on success, -1 on
error.
.LP
Libgenders::genders_getnumnodes($handle)
.IP
Returns the number of nodes listed in the genders file.  Returns
-1 on error.
.LP
Libgenders::genders_getnumattrs($handle)
.IP
Returns the number of attributes listed in the genders file.
Returns -1 on error.
.LP
Libgenders::genders_getnodename($handle)
.IP
Returns the hostname of the current node.  Returns the empty string
on error.
.LP
.B Parsing Functions
.LP
Libgenders::genders_getnodes($handle, [$attr, [$val]])
.IP
Returns a reference to a list of nodes that have the specified
attribute and value.  If $val is not specified, only $attr is
considered.  If both $attr and $val are not specified, all nodes
listed in the genders file are returned.  Returns a reference to an
empty list and an unsuccessful error code when an error occurs.
.LP
Libgenders::genders_getattr($handle, [$node])
.IP
Returns a reference to an array that holds references to two lists.
The first list is a reference to attributes for the specified node.
The second list is a reference to values for the specified node.  If
$node is not specified, local node is used.  Returns a reference to an
empty list and an unsuccessful error code when an error occurs.
.LP
Libgenders::genders_getattr_all($handle)
.IP
Returns a reference to a list of all the attributes listed in the
genders file.  Returns a reference to an empty list and an
unsuccessful error code when an error occurs.
.LP
Libgenders::genders_getattrval($handle, $attr, [$node])
.IP
Returns the value of an attribute listed in a node.  Returns the empty
string if the attribute has no value or if the attribute is not
found. If $node is not specified, local node is used.  Returns the
empty string and an unsuccessful error code when an error occurs.
.LP
Libgenders::genders_testattr($handle, $attr, [$node])
.IP
Tests if a node has a specified attribute.  If $node is not specified,
local node is used.  Returns 1 if the node contains the attribute, 0
if not, -1 on error.
.LP
Libgenders::genders_testattrval($handle,$attr, $val, [$node])
.IP
Tests if a node has a specified attribute=value pair.  If $node is not
specified, local node is used.  Returns 1 if the node contains the
attribute=value pair, 0 if not, -1 on error.
.LP
Libgenders::genders_testnode($handle, [$node])
.IP
Tests if a node is listed in the genders file.  If $node is not
specified, local node is used.  Returns 1 if the node is listed, 0 if
it is not, -1 on error.
.LP
Libgenders::genders_parse($handle, [$filename])
.IP
Parse a genders file and output parse errors to standard error.  If
$filename is not specified, the default genders file is parsed.
Returns the number of errors (0 if no parse errors were found) on
success, -1 on error.
.LP
.br
.SH STRING CONSTANTS
.LP
The value of the string constant DEFAULT_GENDERS_FILE can be accessed via the
following function.
.LP
Libgenders::string_constant($strname)
.IP
Returns a string representing the value of the string constant $strname.  
Returns the empty string on error.
.br
.SH GENDERS ERRORS
The same error codes in the genders C API are returned in the perl
interface, although some are not relevant in perl.  The relevant error
codes from /usr/include/genders.h are listed below.  Their numeric
value can be accessed using the following
.BR h2xs (1)
created function. 
.LP
Libgenders::constant($errname, 0)
.IP
Returns the numeric value of the error name indicated by $errname.
.LP
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_SUCCESS
Success
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_OPEN
Error opening file.
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_READ
Error reading file.
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_PARSE
Parse error in genders file.
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_NOTLOADED
Genders data has not been loaded with genders_load_data().
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_ISLOADED
Genders data has already been loaded with genders_load_data().
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_PARAMETERS
Incorrect parameters have been passed in.
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_NOTFOUND
The node has not been found in the genders file.
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_OUTMEM
System is out of memory, memory cannot be allocated internally.
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_MAGIC
Genders handle has an incorrect magic number.  The handle is not
a proper genders handle or it has been destroyed.
.TP
.B GENDERS_ERR_INTERNAL
An internal system error has occurred.
.br
.SH FILES
/usr/lib/genders/Libgenders.pm
.SH SEE ALSO
h2xs(1), gendlib(3), libgenders(3)
