.\"############################################################################
.\"  $Id: libgenders.3,v 1.27 2010-02-02 00:04:34 chu11 Exp $
.\"############################################################################
.\"  Copyright (C) 2007-2019 Lawrence Livermore National Security, LLC.
.\"  Copyright (C) 2001-2007 The Regents of the University of California.
.\"  Produced at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (cf, DISCLAIMER).
.\"  Written by Jim Garlick <garlick@llnl.gov> and Albert Chu <chu11@llnl.gov>.
.\"  UCRL-CODE-2003-004.
.\"  
.\"  This file is part of Genders, a cluster configuration database.
.\"  For details, see <http://www.llnl.gov/linux/genders/>.
.\"  
.\"  Genders is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
.\"  the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
.\"  Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
.\"  any later version.
.\"  
.\"  Genders is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
.\"  WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
.\"  FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
.\"  details.
.\"  
.\"  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
.\"  with Genders.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"############################################################################
.TH LIBGENDERS 3 "August 2003" "LLNL" "LIBGENDERS"
.SH NAME
libgenders \- a library of functions to parse and retrieve genders data
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <genders.h>
.sp
.BI "genders_t genders_handle_create(void);"
.sp
.BI "int genders_handle_destroy(genders_t handle);"
.sp
.BI "int genders_load_data(genders_t handle, const char *filename);"
.sp
.BI "int genders_errnum(genders_t handle);"
.sp
.BI "char *genders_strerror(int errnum);"
.sp
.BI "char *genders_errormsg(genders_t handle);"
.sp
.BI "void genders_perror(genders_t handle, const char *msg);"
.sp
.BI "int genders_getnumnodes(genders_t handle);"
.sp
.BI "int genders_getnumattrs(genders_t handle);"
.sp
.BI "int genders_getmaxattrs(genders_t handle);"
.sp
.BI "int genders_getmaxnodelen(genders_t handle);"
.sp
.BI "int genders_getmaxattrlen(genders_t handle);"
.sp
.BI "int genders_getmaxvallen(genders_t handle);"
.sp
.BI "int genders_nodelist_create(genders_t handle, char ***nodelist);"
.sp
.BI "int genders_nodelist_clear(genders_t handle, char **nodelist);"
.sp
.BI "int genders_nodelist_destroy(genders_t handle, char **nodelist);"
.sp
.BI "int genders_attrlist_create(genders_t handle, char ***attrlist);"
.sp
.BI "int genders_attrlist_clear(genders_t handle, char **attrlist);"
.sp
.BI "int genders_attrlist_destroy(genders_t handle, char **attrlist);"
.sp
.BI "int genders_vallist_create(genders_t handle, char ***vallist);"
.sp
.BI "int genders_vallist_clear(genders_t handle, char **vallist);"
.sp
.BI "int genders_vallist_destroy(genders_t handle, char **vallist);"
.sp
.BI "int genders_getnodename(genders_t handle, char *node, int len);"
.sp
.BI "int genders_getnodes(genders_t handle, char *nodes[], int len, const char *attr, const char *val);"
.sp
.BI "int genders_getattr(genders_t handle, char *attrs[], char *vals[], int len, const char *node);"
.sp
.BI "int genders_getattr_all(genders_t handle, char *attrs[], int len);"
.sp
.BI "int genders_testattr(genders_t handle, const char *node, const char *attr, char *val, int len);"
.sp
.BI "int genders_testattrval(genders_t handle, const char *node, const char *attr, const char *val);"
.sp
.BI "int genders_isnode(genders_t handle, const char *node);"
.sp
.BI "int genders_isattr(genders_t handle, const char *attr);"
.sp
.BI "int genders_isattrval(genders_t handle, const char *attr, const char *val);"
.sp
.BI "int genders_index_attrvals(genders_t handle, const char *attr);"
.sp
.BI "int genders_query(genders_t handle, char *nodes[], int len, const char *query);"
.sp
.BI "int genders_testquery(genders_t handle, const char *node, const char *query);"
.sp
.BI "int genders_parse(genders_t handle, const char *filename, FILE *stream);"
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
The genders library functions are a set of functions used to parse and
retrieve data from a genders file.  For API details, please see the
individual manpages for each of the functions above, or read the
comments written in /usr/include/genders.h.
.br
.SH GENDERS FILE FORMAT
Each line of the genders file has one of the following formats.  See
the section HOST RANGES below for information on host range
formatting.

     nodename                attr[=value],attr[=value],...
     nodename1,nodename2,... attr[=value],attr[=value],...
     nodenames[A-B]          attr[=value],attr[=value],...

The nodename(s) are the shortened hostnames of a node.  This is
followed by any number of spaces or tabs, and then the comma-separated
list of attributes, each of which can optionally have a value.  The
substitution string "%n" can be used in an attribute value to
represent the nodename.  Nodenames can be listed on multiple lines, so
a node's attributes can be specified on multiple lines.  However, no
single node may have duplicate attributes.

There must be no spaces embedded in the attribute list and there is no
provision for continuation lines.  Commas and equal characters are
special and cannot appear in attribute names or their values.
Comments are prefixed with the hash chracter (#) and can appear
anywhere in the file.  The active genders file is typically found at
/etc/genders or /admin/etc/genders.

Here is an example genders file from a small 16-node linux cluster:

     # slc cluster genders file
     slci,slcj,slc[0-15]  eth2=e%n,cluster=slc,all
     slci                 passwdhost                 
     slci,slcj            management
     slc[1-15]            compute

.SH "HOST RANGES"
As noted in sections above, the genders database
accepts ranges of nodenames in the general form: prefix[n-m,l-k,...],
where n < m and l < k, etc., as an alternative to explicit lists of
nodenames.

This range syntax is meant only as a convenience on clusters with a
prefixNN naming convention and specification of ranges should not be
considered necessary -- the list foo1,foo9 could be specified as such,
or by the range foo[1,9].

Some examples of range usage follow:

foo01,foo02,foo03,foo04,foo05:    foo[01-05]

foo3,foo7,foo9,foo11:             foo[3,7,9-11]

fooi,fooj,foo0,foo1,foo2:         fooi,fooj,foo[0-2]

.SH FILES
/usr/include/genders.h
.sp
/etc/genders
.SH SEE ALSO
Libgenders(3), Genders(3), genders_handle_create(3),
genders_handle_destroy(3), genders_load_data(3), genders_errnum(3),
genders_strerror(3), genders_errormsg(3), genders_perror(3),
genders_getnumnodes(3), genders_getnumattrs(3),
genders_getmaxattrs(3), genders_getmaxnodelen(3),
genders_getmaxattrlen(3), genders_getmaxvallen(3),
genders_nodelist_create(3), genders_nodelist_clear(3),
genders_nodelist_destroy(3), genders_attrlist_create(3),
genders_attrlist_clear(3), genders_attrlist_destroy(3),
genders_vallist_create(3), genders_vallist_clear(3),
genders_vallist_destroy(3), genders_getnodename(3),
genders_getnodes(3), genders_getattr(3), genders_getattr_all(3),
genders_testattr(3), genders_testattrval(3), genders_testnode(3),
genders_index_nodes(3), genders_index_attrs(3), genders_index_attrvals(3),
genders_query(3), genders_testquery(3), genders_parse(3)
